# Upgrading from 0.1.x to 0.2.x

Version 0.2.0 brings this library in line with Elixir best practices for
configuration.

## Rationale

Configuration is no longer global. Instead, you configure
`Elasticsearch.Cluster` modules, which are `GenServer`s. This has several
benefits:

1. A single OTP app can talk to multiple Elasticsearch clusters. This is
   useful for umbrella apps in particular.

2. Reading from environment variables is standardized. You do it by
   overriding the cluster's `init/1` callback, as in Ecto and Phoenix.

3. You can start clusters like any other genserver, passing in 
   configuration at that time.

4. You can bypass clusters altogether by passing configuration instead
   of a cluster to any function that expects a cluster.

## Changes

**BREAKING**: an `Elasticsearch.Cluster` module or configuration map is now
required for all `Elasticsearch` function calls.

**BREAKING**: `{:system, "ENV_VAR"}` is no longer supported in configuration.
Instead, you should read from environment variables in the `init/1` callback
as described in the `Elasticsearch.Cluster` documentation.

**BREAKING**: The `:api_module` configuration option has been renamed
to `:api`.

**BREAKING**: The required callbacks for `Elasticsearch.API` have been
simplified down to a single `request/5` function.

**BREAKING**: `mix elasticsearch.build` now requires the `--cluster` option.

## How to Update Your App

First, add a `Cluster` to your application:

    defmodule MyApp.ElasticsearchCluster do
      use Elasticsearch.Cluster, otp_app: :my_app
    end

Next, switch over your `:elasticsearch` configuration over to your
application, and include the cluster. Be sure to rename the `:api_module`
option to `:api`. See `Elasticsearch.Cluster` for more options.

```diff
-config :elasticsearch,
+config, :my_app, MyApp.ElasticsearchCluster,
   url: "http://localhost:9200",
-  api_module: Elasticsearch.API.HTTP,
+  api: Elasticsearch.API.HTTP,
   # ...
```

Next, be sure to start your Cluster in your application supervisor:

    children = [
      MyApp.ElasticsearchCluster
    ]

Next, add your cluster to all calls to `Elasticsearch` functions:

```diff
- Elasticsearch.post("/posts/_search", %{...})
+ Elasticsearch.post(MyApp.ElasticsearchCluster, "/posts/_search", %{...})
```

Next, update any mock implementations of `Elasticsearch.API` to implement the
`request/5` function instead of the previous functions.

```diff
 defmodule MyApp.ElasticsearchMock do
   @behaviour Elasticsearch.API

-  def get("/url", _opts) do
+  @impl true
+  def request(_config, :get, "/url", _data, _opts) do
     {:ok, %HTTPoison.Response{}}
   end
 end
 ```

Finally, update any calls to `mix elasticsearch.build` to include the cluster
as an option:

    mix elasticsearch.build [index] --cluster MyApp.ElasticsearchCluster
